---
title: gulp API 学习总结
category: gulp
description: gulp API 学习总结
keywords: gulp api
---

以下的内容摘录于 gulp 在 [github](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp/blob/master/docs/API.md) 上面的文档并结合了自己的理解。

- gulp.src(globs[, options])
    
    glob refers to node-glob syntax or it can be a direct file path

    参数简介:
    
    globs:  
    Type: String or Array  
    Glob or array of globs to read.
    
    options: 
    
    options.base
    
    type: String  
    Default: everything before a glob starts
    
    E.g., consider somefile.js in client/js/somedir:
    
        gulp.src('client/js/**/*.js')  //Matches 'client/js/somedir/somefile.js' and resolves 'base' to 'client/js/'
            .pipe(minify())
            .pipe(gulp.dest('build')); //Writes 'build/somedir/somefile.js'
            
        gulp.src('client/js/**/*.js', { base: 'client' })
            .pipe(minify())
            .pipe(gulp.dest('build')); //Writes 'build/js/somedir/somefile.js'
            
    这个 base 值，在使用 gulp.dest 的时候会使用到，下面有介绍。
    
- gulp.dest(path[, options])

    Can be piped to and it will write files. Re-emits all data passed to it so you can pipe to multiple folder. Folders that don't exist will be created.
    
    The write path is calculated by appending the file relative path to the given destination directory. In turn, relative paths are calculated against the file base. See gulp.src above for more info. 这里就是要你去参考上面提到的 base 值。
    
    参数简介:
    
    path:  
    type: String or Function  
    The path(output folder) to write files to. Or a function that returns it.
    
    options 的话暂时没用到，以后再补充吧。
    
- gulp.task(name[, deps], fn)

    参数简介:
    
    name:  
    The name of the task. `Tasks that you want to run from the command line should not have spaces in them.`
    
    deps:  
    Type: Array  
    An array of tasks to be executed and completed before your task will run.
    
    `Note: Are your tasks running before the dependencies are complete? Make sure your dependency tasks are correctly using the async run hints: take in a callback or return a promise or event stream.`
    
    you can also omit the function if you only want to run the dependency tasks.
    
    `The tasks will run in parallel(all at once), so don't assume that the tasks will start/finish in order.`
    
    fn:  
    The function that performs the task's operations. Generally this takes the form of `gulp.src().pipe(someplugin())` .
    
- gulp.watch(glob[, opts], tasks) or gulp.watch(glob [, opts, cb])

    Watch files and do something when a file changes. This always returns an EventEmitter that emits change events.
    
    - gulp.watch(glob[, opts], tasks)
    
        参数简介:
        
        glob:  
        Type: String or Array  
        A single glob or array of globs that indicate which files to watch for changes.
        
        opts 暂时还没用到过。
        
        tasks:  
        Type: Array  
        Names of task(s) to run when a file changes, added with gulp.task()
        
        看看例子:
        
            var watcher = gulp.watch('js/**/*.js', ['uglify','reload']);
            watcher.on('change', function(event) {
              console.log('File ' + event.path + ' was ' + event.type + ', running tasks...');
            });
        
    - gulp.watch(glob[, opts, cb])
    
        参数简介:
        
        glob:  
        Type: String or Array  
        A single glob or array of globs that indicate which files to watch for changes.
        
        opts 暂时还没有用到过。
        
        cb(event)  
        Type: Function  
        Callback to called on each change.
        
        The callback will be passed an object, `event`, that describes the change:
        
        event.type  
        Type: String  
        The type of change that occurred, either added, changed or deleted.
        
        event.path  
        Type: String  
        The path to the file that triggered the event.
        
        看看例子：
        
            gulp.watch('js/**/*.js', function(event) {
                console.log('File ' + event.path + ' was ' + event.type + ', running tasks...');
            });

欢迎指教=^_^=
