---
title: Summary of Book The Elements of Typographic Style Applied to the Web
description: Summary of Book The Elements of Typographic Style Applied to the Web
keywords: Summary of Book The Elements of Typographic Style Applied to the Web
category: css
---

# [The Elements of Typographic Style Applied to the Web](http://webtypography.net/toc/)

## [Choose a basic leading that suits the typeface, text and measure](http://webtypography.net/2.2.1)

- “Vertical space is metered in a different way [to horizontal space]. You must choose not only the overall measure – the depth of the column or page – but also a basic rhythmical unit. This unit is the leading, which is the distance from one baseline to the next.”
- Leading is achieved in CSS through the line-height property. 

## [Add and delete vertical space in measured intervals](http://webtypography.net/2.2.2)

- “Headings, subheads, block quotations, footnotes, illustrations, captions and other intrusions into the text create syncopations and variations against the base rhythm of regularly leaded lines. These variations can and should add life to the page, but the main text should also return after each variation precisely on beat and in phase.”
- Variations in text size: 
    
    - When there is a change in text size, perhaps with a heading or sidenotes, the differing text should take up a multiple of the basic leading. As stated earlier, each line on this page is 18 px in height. This means that every diversion from the basic text size should take up multiples of 18 px. This can be accomplished by adjusting the line-height and margin accordingly.

- Images:  

    - The same rules should be applied to images as to headings: any image and associated caption should take up multiples of the basic line height. For example the image on this page demonstrating asymmetrical headings is 180 px tall – precisely 10 lines in height.
